Q:1 What is SAST?
Ans: SAST extends to "Static Application Security Testing". SAST is a Security technique where we can scan the source code without running the application to find vulnerabilities like SQL Injection, XSS attacks etc.

Tool Ex: SonarQube, Checkmarx etc. - It check your code before execution for Security Issues.

Q:2 What is DAST?
Ans: DAST extends to "Dynamic Application Security Testing". DAST is a Security technique where we can scan the application while it is running to find vulnerabilities like SQL Injection, XSS attacks etc.

Tool Ex: OWASP ZAP, Burp Suite etc. - It check your application during runtime for Security Issues.

Q:3 What is SCA?
Ans: SCA extends to "Software Composition Analysis". SCA checks the third-party libraries or dependencies used in the project to find vulnerabilities.

Tool Ex: Black Duck - It checks your dependencies not your code.

Q:4 Difference between SAST & SCA?
Ans:
- SAST: SAST checks your source (written) code.
- SCA: SCA checks the dependencies & 3rd parties libraries we have used in our project.

Q:5 What is NX?
Ans: NX is an Extensible Development Tool for Monorepos.
- NX is a tool which is used to manage multiple applications & libraries inside a single repository(monorepo).
- One Repo -> Multiple apps + shared code.

Q:6 Why NX is used?
Ans: NX is used for Code Sharing, Better Organization & Faster builds using Caching.

Q:7 What is ELK?
Ans: ELK: "Elastic Search || Logstash || Kibana".
- ELK is a logging & Monitoring stack which is used to Collect, Process & Visualze the logs. ELK helps us to debug production issues using logs.
- Elastic Search - Store the Logs.
- Logstash - Process the Logs.
- Kibana - Shows the Logs in UI.

Q:8 What is Jest?
Ans: Jest is a JS testing framework which is used to write unit tests, mock functions, Snapshot tests & ensure code works correctly.

Q:9 What is Unit Testing?
Ans: Testing individual functions & components in isolation to enusre our application works correctly is called Unit Testing.

Q:10 What is Mocking?
Ans: Mocking is replacing real deps with fake one for testing. 

Q:11 What is snapshot testing?
Ans: Comparing the UI output with previous version of UI to detect the changes is called Snapshot testing.

Q:12 Why testing is Important?
Ans: Testing is imp bcoz it ensures that code works correctly & prevent bugs from reaching it to production.



